Let me never fall into the vulgar mistake of dreaming that I am persecuted whenever I am contradicted. ::: Ralph Waldo Emerson
I don't wait for moods. You accomplish nothing if you do that. Your mind must know it has got to get down to work. ::: Pearl S. Buck

Scientists become method oriented rather than problem oriented. Stop doing
experiments for a while and think. ::: Platt (1964), quoted in Pigliucci
(2002:92)

Even the most practical man of affairs is usually in the thrall of the ideas of
some long-dead economist. ::: John Maynard Keynes

Academics fight over resources much more readily than over principles. ::: https://twitter.com/molpopgen/status/512340805923508224

Must we geneticists become bacteriologists, physiological chemists and
physicists, simultaneously with being zoologists and botanists? Let us hope so.
:::  H.J. Muller (1922)

The ground rule—or perhaps doctrine would be a better term—is that adaptation
is a special and onerous concept that should be used only where it is really
necessary. ::: G.C. Williams

A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds. ::: Emerson

The History of Science has suffered greatly from the use by teachers of
second-hand material, and the consequent obliteration of the circumstances and
the intellectual atmosphere in which the great discoveries of the past were
made. A first-hand study is always instructive, and often ... full of
surprises. ::: R.A. Fisher, 1955

The natural phenomena of the evolutionary history of man claim an entirely
peculiar place in the wide range of the scientific study of nature. There is
surely no subject of scientific investigation touching man more closely, or in
the knowledge of which he is more deeply concerned, than the human organism
itself; and of all the various branches of the science of man, or anthropology,
the history of his natural evolution should excite his highest interest. :::
Ernst Haeckel (1834–1919), The Evolution of Man (1892), p. 2

The grand aim of all science is to cover the greatest number of empirical facts
by logical deduction from the smallest number of hypotheses or axioms. :::
Albert Einstein

The tendency of modern scientific teaching is to neglect the great books, to lay
far too much stress upon relatively unimportant modern work, and to present
masses of detail of doubtful truth and questionable weight in such a way as to
obscure principles. ::: R.A. Fisher

Mathematics is not a careful march down a well-cleared highway, but a journey
into a strange wilderness, where the explorers often get lost. Rigour should be
a signal to the historian that the maps have been made, and the real explorers
have gone elsewhere. ::: William S. Anglin

The whole problem with the world is that fools and fanatics are always so certain
of themselves, and wiser people so full of doubts. ::: Bertrand Russell

He who asks is a fool for five minutes, but he who does not ask remains a fool
forever. ::: Chinese Proverb

Never argue with a fool, onlookers may not be able to tell the difference. :::
Mark Twain

The greatest challenge to any thinker is stating the problem in a way that will
allow a solution. ::: Bertrand Russell

As a mathematical discipline travels far from its empirical source, or still
more, if it is a second and third generation only indirectly inspired from
ideas coming from 'reality', it is beset with very grave dangers. It becomes
more and more purely aestheticizing, more and more purely l'art pour l'art.
This need not be bad, if the field is surrounded by correlated subjects, which
still have closer empirical connections, or if the discipline is under the
influence of men with an exceptionally well-developed taste. But there is a
grave danger that the subject will develop along the line of least resistance,
that the stream, so far from its source, will separate into a multitude of
insignificant branches, and that the discipline will become a disorganized mass
of details and complexities. In other words, at a great distance from its
empirical source, or after much 'abstract' inbreeding, a mathematical subject
is in danger of degeneration. At the inception the style is usually classical;
when it shows signs of becoming baroque the danger signal is up. It would be
easy to give examples, to trace specific evolutions into the baroque and the
very high baroque, but this would be too technical. In any event, whenever this
stage is reached, the only remedy seems to me to be the rejuvenating return to
the source: the reinjection of more or less directly empirical ideas. I am
convinced that this is a necessary condition to conserve the freshness and the
vitality of the subject, and that this will remain so in the future. ::: John
von Neumann

An ounce of algebra is worth a ton of verbal argument. ::: J.B.S Haldane
